## Code Book 
This file describes the variables as named in the output file of the data tidy. From the original data set I have only considered
the variables with standard deviation and mean components. I have named the column headers with a namespaces style, so that groupings of related variables are clear. Furthermore each variable represents a derived average of observations grouped by the subject and the type of activity classified. This allows us to reason on a single value, per subject per activity level. I have chosen a 'long-form' naming style because I believe having descriptive names as close to any potential source code as possible assists in understanding. In other words the analyser needs to less frequently consult the codebook for simple mappings. I argue that the added typing can be relieved by auto-completion in modern programming tools. 

This data is tidy for a number of reasons 

1. There is a single file to process, rather than multiple - making it particularly easy to map subjects to observations and labels. 
2. Columns that consider the raw value, rather than means with standard deviations have been ignored - reducing from 561 to 88 variables. This is much less data  easy to reason about, while still capturing the essence of the original measurements. 
3. The columns have been assigned much more descriptive names to indicate their use. Some typos have been removed and a naming convention has been standardised.  
4  I have grouped by subject and activity level, reducing the number of observations to one mean per activity level per subject. This allows reasoning about metrics on a per-subject, per activity level basis. 


### Data
There are 180 observations of 88 variables after the data has been grouped by activity level, subject and then averaged by each variable. 

### Tidying and Transformation
A single data set has been created by taking both the training and test set observations, appending the relevant activity label column and subject id column. I provide only the variables and observations that are concerned with a mean or standard deviation. More descriptive column names (detailed below) are applied. Next, both training and data sets are merged together. Finally I have grouped the data set by subject and actvitiy labely, applying an average to each numeric variable related to each grouping. The output is written to a file.  

### Variables

Column | Description
----- | ------
subject_id | The id of the subject in question
activity_label | The type of activity derived from the metrics. Options are WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING,LAYING

All numeric variables are bound between [-1,1] and are grouped by a custom namespace style naming convention. Details of this convention are below. 

Group   |Description
-----   |-----
time.  | Time domain signals captured at a constant rate of 50Hz
freq.  | Frequency domain signals derived using FFT 
angle. | Additional vectors obtained by averaging signals in a window sample after finding an angle between two original vectors

Next level seperate signals that were generated either from the body or gravity.

Group |Description
------  |-----------
body. |Signals generated by the body
gravity.  |Signals generated by gravity

Next level, if relevant, seperates signals that were generated either by gyroscope or accelerometer. 

Group |Description
------  |-----------
.accelerometer. | Signals generated by the body
.gyroscope. | Signals generated by gravity

The type of opearation applied to the signal 

Group |Description
------  |-----------
.std. | Standard deviation
.mean.  | Mean value
.meanFreq.  | Weighted average of frequency components

Some extra variables, where applicable. 

Group |Description
------  |-----------
.jerk.  | Jerk signal derived from linear acceleration and angular velocity
.magnitude. | The magnitude of the three-dimentional signals using the Ecludian norm

Finally, which axis of 3d space the metric applies to

Group |Description
------  |-----------
.X | X value in 3d space
.Y | Y value in 3d space
.Z | Z value in 3d space



